[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
My guest Teal Swan
has a story that's been
watched by millions
of people on YouTube about
living with the shadow
side of ourselves.
Her story was documented in
a film called "Open Shadow."
Teal's story is one of
abuse from mothers and self
and attempting to
heal through it.
Welcome, Teal.
>>TEAL SWAN: Thanks
for having me on.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
I've done a few
kind of similar--
not the same-- stories and
I'm just constantly left with,
how can adults steal the
innocence of children
because it comes down to the
innocence of children, right?
>>TEAL: Yes.
>>REGINA: And in your case, it
wasn't any different and you
have your own story and it's
something that is perpetuated--
was perpetuated really
throughout your lifetime
in terms of what it did to
your internal perception
of yourself.
So let's start with one
of the terms that you use
and you say that you've
made it your home
to "live with the shadow."
And I thought, first
of all, explain
what that means to
everyone so they
can get a context for
this conversation.
>>TEAL: OK.
So the "shadow" essentially
means the subconscious.
When you're raised in any kind
of situation but especially
these abusive types
of situations,
it imprints your way of
looking at the world.
But you're not usually
conscious of the fact
that you see the
world in that way.
So the process of
healing and the process
of expanding, becoming
more, is a process
of becoming conscious of what is
down there in the subconscious.
And we've been calling the
subconscious the "shadow"
for a very long time.
It's just that most of what
we put in the subconscious
is the stuff we don't
want to look at.
The misconception, though, is
that the only thing that's down
there is stuff that's not good.
But actually, we suppress a lot
of good stuff in the shadow,
as well.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
I mean, the subconscious
is simply a repository.
It's not dark nor light.
It's just what has been.
So it can create these
magnificent, lovely attractions
in life, as well as
repulsions because of things
that have happened on the darker
side of the spectrum, right?
OK.
So you were born very open
psychically as a child.
So let's talk about your
early life experience
and what that was like
and how it showed itself,
how it played out in your
family, and all of that.
Take your time.
>>TEAL: OK.
Well, being born extrasensory
or super open intuitively,
it means a whole lot of things.
So the first thing
is when you're
overlapping these different
dimensional realities--
let's say somebody
in the family dies.
To somebody grounded in
the physical, they're gone.
But to somebody who's
extrasensory, they're not gone.
They're hanging around.
You can see them.
You can hear them.
And so that was
the kind of stuff
I was dealing with as a child.
Also, being a
medical intuitive, I
could see what was
wrong with people.
I could see it manifest
in an energetic level
before it was on
a physical level.
Little kids shouldn't
"know" that type of stuff.
>>REGINA: Right.
And the parents don't like
those inconvenient truths when
a kid blurts out something.
>>TEAL: Well, yeah.
And when you've got
a tuned-in child,
it also means that you can't
hide anything from them.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>TEAL: So you've
got a kid who's
like, you don't feel that way.
I can tell you how you feel.
You're mad right now.
You can't hide.
And it bled into a lot
of real issues for me
because it's not just
a blessing to see
more than a person should see.
Especially in a world that
thrives on suppression,
it's quite painful.
So I had a very hard
time coexisting.
It's very difficult
for a kid that's
bringing in that
kind of information
to do the things you want
them to do on time, to fit
into a society that doesn't make
sense to them because they're,
of course, the kid that's
going to be like, why does it
have to be this way?
And can you give me an answer?
And most parents actually can't.
So it ends up being
an invalidating child
to have, to be quite honest.
If you're not prepared
for that type of child,
it invalidates you as a parent.
It invalidates you as a person.
And so it's hard to have
any kind of insecurities
and have that type of child.
And that was the problem
between me and my parents.
>>REGINA: So they chose the
classic route, which was
to take you to a psychologist?
>>TEAL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: So let's talk
about that experience.
How old were you and
how did they begin
and what kind of
therapies did they use?
>>TEAL: Well, I think I
went earlier, but about 11
was when it became, we
have to really figure out
what's wrong with this kid.
So they were dragging me
to people who were, I mean,
standard therapists, who were
looking at me in terms of,
is she schizoaffective?
Is she schizophrenic?
Is she bipolar?
What's with all the emotions?
And they could never put their
finger on what was going on.
But of course, by that age--
some people know my
story, some people don't--
because of my abilities--
>>REGINA: We're going
to get into your story.
>>TEAL: You're going
to get into it?
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah, all of it.
Mm-hm.
>>TEAL: Well, nobody really
could put their finger on what
was going wrong with me.
And so I got slapped with
all kinds of diagnoses
only because they wanted
to try medication.
You can't give somebody a
medication without giving them
a diagnosis.
So I got all kinds of
diagnoses and I started to--
>>REGINA: What were they,
the plethora of diagnoses?
>>TEAL: Well, every single one
of the therapists that I saw
from--
I mean, by the time I
got out of childhood,
it would have been probably
15 or 16 therapists just
by that point.
Every one of them said that I
was a borderline personality.
Three of them said I
was schizoaffective.
Two of them bipolar--
other people would switch their
diagnosis between all three
of those things.
But it was that spectrum
that they put me on.
>>REGINA: What kind of
drugs were you put on
and did you actually take them?
>>TEAL: Oh, yeah.
I did because what
people don't understand
is when you have a kid
and you're dragging them
to all these therapists,
the kid isn't thinking,
oh, I'm perfectly fine.
I was walking in
that room thinking,
something is wrong with me.
I have no other explanation
for the way that people
are treating me and the fact
that I can't fit in no matter
what I do.
So I was desperate just
to make them like me, just
to make them be OK with me.
So I took them, yeah, because
I was in emotional hell.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: And so what was
the effect of the drugs?
>>TEAL: Most of them made
the situations worse.
>>REGINA: How so?
>>TEAL: They put me on
Abilify, for example,
and for whatever reason,
it made me puke blood
for about two straight weeks.
And when we called
the therapist saying
that this is what was happening,
he said, just keep taking it.
Prozac-- I was on
Prozac for a while.
And instead of having suicidal
and cutting-type behavior,
I swung and started
having homicidal thoughts.
>>REGINA: Oh, interesting.
You don't usually hear
about that side effect.
It says suicidal tendencies.
It doesn't say homicidal.
>>TEAL: Well this is
the thing, though,
is there's this
huge study that's
going into Prozac because
what they're finding
with a lot of these
school shootings
and things like
that where kids pop
is that there's a
lot of medication
for specifically Prozac.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>TEAL: And this is the problem.
These guys are
using these drugs.
They don't actually know
enough about the brain.
We don't know enough
about the brain
to know how anything's
going to happen.
So it's kind of a dart.
And the real blessing I
think in my childhood, which
we didn't heal much, but we
went to a child psychologist who
sat my parents down
and said, look,
I'm not going to
be able to tell you
what's going on
with your daughter
because we don't know enough.
What I do know is that
she was able to tell me
something about my son
that I never told her
and that nobody knows.
I have no explanation for it.
What I can do for
you is to basically
just start with the drugs
that begin with an A name.
Start with the drugs that begin
with a B name and then a C name
and see if anything
works because it's
the best that I can do for you.
And at least he was honest.
My mother was like, I'm done.
I'm done.
I can't do this anymore.
>>REGINA: What did
this do when you
were on these various
drugs to your abilities
within the other realms?
Did it leave you--
you were still open.
You still had access
to all of that.
So you were still nuts.
>>TEAL: Yeah.
[LAUGHTER]
>>REGINA: So it didn't help
that part that they were hoping
would conveniently go away.
It just gave you all of the
other negatively impacted
behaviors.
Let's talk about then
getting into kind
of the crux of the story or
the breaking point of the story
because this is
something that people
have a really hard time with
and I have a hard time with.
And part of it is the
parents' lack of awareness
around these things.
So let's talk
about what happened
when you were placed in the
trust of this man, "Doc."
Let's talk about Doc, who
he was, how old you were,
and the beginning of
this whole relationship.
>>TEAL: OK.
When I met Doc, I
was five but I didn't
become a figment of his
reality until I was about six.
And he was a
psychopath, honestly,
if you want a diagnosis.
>>REGINA: But what did he look
like in the mainstream world
that your parents would
have entrusted you to him?
>>TEAL: A veterinarian, very
upstanding, super charismatic,
leader-type personality--
most of the people in the
society that we were living in
saw him as a very let's say
cutting-edge type of a person
because he was into
the alternative field.
So when he came in
and said, I know
what these types
of abilities are,
nobody else in that type
of my parents' circle
or anybody in that society
knew anything about that.
And so they were
like, wow, here's
a different perspective
on this kid.
Nobody wants to be around Teal.
So here we have somebody
saying, not only
do I want to be around her.
I can really help.
And at that point,
my parents were
desperate not just
to change my issues
but also to make me more happy.
So I was--
>>REGINA: So this was really
key to understanding because you
see your parents in
the film and think,
there's so much regret there
and sadness on their part.
You can feel the
heaviness in their hearts.
And it's because
they failed you,
but they did it because
they were actually
trying to help you.
And they were hoodwinked by--
was this man a
charismatic, as well?
>>TEAL: Super.
>>REGINA: Now, you said,
"the community I lived in."
You need to set that up for us.
>>TEAL: OK.
So the community--
>>REGINA: This is a part of
the story that's important.
>>TEAL: Thank you, mom and dad.
The community they decided
to live in as liberal hippies
was an incredibly
ultra conservative,
rural Mormon community.
>>REGINA: Right.
And that's why I said I
think it's a key point.
>>TEAL: Yeah.
So I was not received well.
>>REGINA: In your opinion
looking back on it,
why were they attracted to
that community as hippies?
>>TEAL: Because my
parents are nature freaks
and they were forest rangers.
And so where they got a job
with the National Forest Service
was in the very rural
mountains in northern Utah.
>>REGINA: This just put
them in close proximity
with the community and they
thought, well, it's community.
We have a child.
>>TEAL: Ironically, they
thought it was safe.
>>REGINA: OK.
Yeah.
All right.
So now we get the
backdrop to it.
So let's talk about Doc,
this charismatic, upstanding
veterinarian within this little
cultish Mormon community.
>>TEAL: OK.
Well, he was a vet but a
vet that travels around.
And he was really interested
in doing acupuncture and things
like that.
And my issue is at
that age, I am not
aware of how he hooked
up with my parents.
What I do know is
that the first time
that I had run-ins with him
was not at my family home.
So I got on his radar
separate of them.
But he did have a
relationship, I found out,
not a romantic relationship
but a work relationship
with my mother that
happened before I was even
born because my
mother went to college
in this town for a little while.
>>REGINA: Oh.
So he knew her?
OK.
>>TEAL: However he
found out about me,
I actually had a friend in
school, a kind of friend--
I didn't really have
friends but somebody
who went to the same
kindergarten class--
whose father was part
of a satanic coven.
And Doc was the one
that was supplying blood
to the satanic group.
>>REGINA: From
animals or people?
From animals-- OK.
>>TEAL: Because as a vet, he has
access because part of the job
is to go to the primary
slaughterhouse that's
there in the town.
>>REGINA: Yeah, sure.
So there were these
dubious connections
that had occurred
before you ever
came into contact with him.
Now at this time, was the entire
community under the impression
that he was this man that
he presented himself as?
>>TEAL: Oh, yeah.
>>REGINA: So there was no
real suspicion of him at all.
>>TEAL: No.
I wouldn't say so.
In retrospect, when my parents
had been talking to people,
there's more than
a few people that
have a real issue
with him, people
who have expressed that
they didn't like him at all.
There's been red flags
but no, in the community,
he was not only upstanding
but incredibly sociable.
You'd never ever guess
in a million lifetimes,
especially because he
selected for a job that made
him look like a real good guy.
>>REGINA: Right.
OK.
So now you're in contact
with him and as you say,
the delusional or illusory
kind of relationship
started developing
by the age of six.
What was that like?
>>TEAL: Well, he was
coming into my room
in the middle of the night,
taking me out of my bed
and putting me back
before the morning.
He was showing up at my school.
>>REGINA: And
where was he taking
you and what was happening?
>>TEAL: Cult rituals, mostly.
So he was--
>>REGINA: And you were aware.
You never lost your
understanding or memory.
You were cognizant of
everything going on.
Let's slow this story down.
What happened when
you would be taken out
of bed and to the cult ritual?
>>TEAL: Well, it depended
on the particular ritual.
But for example, let's say
that this particular group
that he was a part of-- he
had multiple personalities
so there were two different
cult groups in the area
that he was a part of.
And so let's say that
this particular cult
ritual on this night requires
an actual sacrifice of a child.
He would put me in the car.
We would go around sometimes
with another person, sometimes
just us, and we would be
casing these neighborhoods
in southern Idaho for
children that were unattended.
>>REGINA: Why would he take you?
>>TEAL: Because he
was training me--
that was the whole thing.
I was his apprentice.
>>REGINA: I see.
You were to be the
sorcerer's apprentice.
>>TEAL: 100%.
>>REGINA: So now you
as the little kid,
what happened to
you in all of this?
What did you feel?
>>TEAL: Dissociated-- these
guys are much smarter than just
picking a kid up,
especially because he
didn't kidnap me and then
disappear with me permanently.
I was going home to my parents.
So it was deliberate.
>>REGINA: It was an adventure.
>>TEAL: Yeah.
So it was programming, though.
So it's not like they just
leave you with no explanation.
I was given the explanation.
You're a demon that took over
the body of a little child.
You're my daughter.
This is all a lie
you're living--
tons of proof to back it up.
I 100% bought it.
He capitalized on
that gap between me
and my parents, the 'you don't
belong in this family' thing,
and it worked.
I was feeling miserably
isolated and lonely.
And so when this guy said,
I'm actually your real dad
and the real truth about
you is all this stuff,
it made a lot more
sense to me emotionally.
>>REGINA: How did you
feel as a little child
to think that you
were a demon that
was cloaked in a human body?
>>TEAL: Absolutely
horrific-- it made
all the extrasensory
stuff make sense,
but I just wanted to
be good so, so badly.
I wanted to be good and I
couldn't figure out a way
how to do it.
>>REGINA: So by being his
little sorcerer's apprentice,
you were being a good girl.
>>TEAL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now what happened on the
nights that you took children
that were meant for the group?
And what do you mean by there
were incentives and payoffs
that occurred in this?
>>TEAL: In these
cult groups, anytime
you do something that
benefits the cult group,
there are kickbacks, financial
kickbacks, sexual kickbacks,
status kickbacks, for example.
And him procuring me
in the first place--
I was in a role that the cult
group calls the "oracle."
It's basically like a
direct channel from source
consciousness and
we're essentially
raised to become what they
call the "Pythia," which
is the top female position
within a cult group.
And that's a very large group.
It's not rural.
It's intended to
basically be handed up
all the way to the top.
>>REGINA: The top
of the government--
the top of the governments.
>>TEAL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>TEAL: So that's their goal.
Their goal is to raise
one of these oracles
to become the Pythia and that
pipeline gives anybody downwind
a hell of a lot of kickbacks.
So within the group, he's
what they call a "tracker."
A tracker is in charge of making
sure that nobody ever finds out
what this cult group is doing.
So they're the ones that
clean up the scenes,
find out where to
put the scenes,
find out how to dispose of
bodies, track people who
have been defected,
basically, these people who've
run away-- they make it not
happen so nobody finds out.
That's a tracker.
It's a lower standing
role within this group,
lower status, than what
they call the "keeper."
A keeper is a role where
somebody is caretaking,
completely responsible
for, and owning--
kind of like a zookeeper--
a younger being of
a higher status.
It would be like
taking care of a prince
or a princess would
be the closest
type of explanation for that.
As a result of
finding me, he was
elevated from the role
of tracker to keeper
or another word for
keeper is "handler."
>>REGINA: And this works
similarly in other circles,
but I would guess it's
because each of those circles
has a similar goal to create
the same kind of creature
at the top because
"handler" keeps coming up,
whether it's the political
community doing this.
As in Cathy O'Brien's
case and whatnot,
it always comes back to
the keeper and the handler.
And this person usually
stays with the young subject
for a long time.
>>TEAL: Oh, yeah.
>>REGINA: So let's talk
about after these forays
and let's say that, OK, they've
delivered a kid to the group
for those sacrifices.
And you're saying they
were doing child sacrifices
at that time as a group.
What are they hoping
to obtain in doing this
on the psychospiritual level?
Explain to us what they think
they're getting out of this.
>>TEAL: What they
think they're getting
is that whoever the
sacrifice is done in favor of
is absorbing all of the vital
force of the sacrificed victim.
>>REGINA: So it is the
innocence of children.
>>TEAL: Essentially.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
OK.
Let's talk about the
rest of-- you were young.
He was tracking you.
He's your handler.
You're going and you're helping
procure the children for this.
But let's go into more
how you were worked with,
how you became--
what ultimately ended up
happening with you, which
was highly self-destructive.
There's a good reason for it.
So what was the training
of you like, aside
from these forays in the night?
>>TEAL: Well, very ritualized
programming sessions
over and over and over
and over and over.
So for example, if he was
trying to do perpetrator bonding
programs, he would
sit me somewhere,
like in the cave
overnight, leave
me there totally
terrorized, traumatized,
and then he would
come in as the savior.
So that's one of the most
basic ways of programming.
You create a
situation of distress
that you then come in
as the rescuer for.
And even though it creates some
kind of cognitive dissonance
for the victim, basically,
you bond to that person
like they're your life.
I can't describe it.
>>REGINA: You understood he
was dropping you in that cave
and how cruel that was?
>>TEAL: Sometimes, but he
always had an explanation.
>>REGINA: What
would an explanation
be for leaving a little
girl in a cave at night?
>>TEAL: That there were demons
that were after me and that
was the only place to hide me.
>>REGINA: OK.
And you're young enough
and you kind of buy it.
But you actually--
>>TEAL: Oh, I bought it 100%.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>TEAL: I had nothing.
This is the thing.
Explaining to an adult
the perspective of a child
is very, very hard.
I had no other thing to
believe, nothing else.
>>REGINA: Well,
you had no one else
you were in resonance
with, right?
So this is the only person you
really had a relationship with.
>>TEAL: Nobody sits
you down as a kid
and is like, oh,
by the way, there
are these people who do these
kinds of things to children.
It's just like, not only
does this explain everything,
which they do a
very, very good job
of making things fit
in with your reality,
it's distorted reality.
They pick truths to
back up these lies.
So not only did that make sense,
what it really comes down to is
I have no other reason that
this would be happening.
>>REGINA: So this
must be the truth.
>>TEAL: Yeah, you
just swallow it.
You swallow it,
especially the bit
that it's your fault because
that is the only control you
have over anything.
It is a level of powerlessness
that most people on Earth
will never touch.
>>REGINA: No, mm-mm.
>>TEAL: So it was
like, you know what?
Fine.
>>REGINA: Somehow,
you deserved it.
>>TEAL: Exactly.
And if I deserve it, then maybe
I can do something about it.
If I deserve it, then I
had some power over it.
I'm not just a victim who's
completely out of control.
>>REGINA: So they did creepy
hypnotherapy sessions with you?
>>TEAL: Oh, yeah,
constantly, under ketamine.
>>REGINA: Under ketamine--
talk about that.
>>TEAL: OK.
So being in the
profession that he's in
and some other people
in this group are in--
>>REGINA: They had
access to ketamine.
>>TEAL: Access to ketamine and--
>>REGINA: Explain
what ketamine is--
>>TEAL: Dormitor and Xylazine--
it's basically synthetic heroin.
But it makes it so
that you're in a state
of unconscious impression.
So you can implant
programs, behaviors,
way deeper into the
subconscious mind
when you're under the influence
of these types of medications.
It also in my teen
years helped to subdue
what they call the
breakthrough effects of trauma.
So when you're trying
to program a person,
there are all
these layers to it.
But naturally, a program system
has to be done through trauma
and trauma creates distress.
So you get
breakthrough symptoms.
You get symptoms like
rashes, constantly going
into the doctor's
office for infections--
you get anxiety attacks
and things like that.
>>REGINA: But you are easily
programmable under trauma,
the effects of trauma.
>>TEAL: 100%.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
So ketamine-- so what
were these creepy
hypnotherapy sessions like?
>>TEAL: Well, it depended
on the time again.
There was a cult trainer who
was actually separate from Doc.
So the cult trainer is
basically a scientist
and his whole entire
job is, how do I
program a certain behavior?
Programming is very
easy to understand.
It's nothing more than training.
It's I inflict this stimulus
and I want this response.
And there's a billion
different ways
that each trainer
goes about doing that.
And literally, with the
psychologist and the trainers,
it is a cat and
mouse game to try
to figure out how to
deprogram and how to program.
And so--
>>REGINA: It's a science.
>>TEAL: Oh, yeah.
>>REGINA: And we've
heard about it
in a lot of the
conspiracy shows having
to do with some of the people
that were very effective at it
coming over from Germany
post-World War II
and sharing those technologies
with our intelligence community
and beyond.
Mm-hm.
>>TEAL: So let's
say that you want
to implant in a child--
this is me at 12 years
old-- you want to
implant in a child
or deeper implant the
concept of a split identity.
One of the foundations of
creating a program system
within a human is you
have to create splits
within the personality spectrum.
Otherwise, there's
too much weight
on a singular personality.
It can't hold.
>>REGINA: Because
why, that personality
will become dominant over time?
>>TEAL: No, it
will break through.
>>REGINA: Break through?
>>TEAL: You need
compartments in order
to inflict this much trauma on
a person and this much training.
So if you had one
personality and I
was damaging that
personality, the likelihood
of you being able to
succeed is slim to nothing.
But if I create a split
in your personality
and this one is the
one that's taking
all the trauma and this one is
just programmed for success--
>>REGINA: And reinforcement--
>>TEAL: I can make
you just switch.
So basically, it's synthetically
creating multiple personality
disorder.
>>REGINA: And you say,
switching from trauma,
we heard some of
what the trauma was.
But what was the
offsetting part?
What was the
successful part of you
that was being created that
made you feel empowered?
>>TEAL: Well, for example, so
those were actually more fun--
>>REGINA: Sure, I would guess--
>>TEAL: Situations
where they set up a goal
and the goal gets a reward.
But this time, if they're
doing "gold program"
and they call it, you're
going to make the goal.
And when you make that goal,
you get huge rewards for it.
>>REGINA: So what
would be a goal
and what would be a reward,
just to give us an idea?
>>TEAL: Like an
obstacle course--
it could be something
very, very simple.
They don't usually make
those very, very elaborate.
So they set up an
obstacle course
and getting to the
end of it means
that you get a certain candy
after you've been starved
for a certain amount of time.
>>REGINA: So it's
extra rewarding.
>>TEAL: Yeah.
So you go through
it and when you win,
they'll flash the color
gold in front of your face.
So you're basically
forming a connection
between the color gold and
success and that feeling.
And they even get you to
anchor it into all your cells
and feel it.
And so they do this multiple
times so that they can actually
create a correlation between
the color gold and that feeling
sensation.
And then they cut
it off and they'll
start to program an
actual personality of it.
So they'll inject
you with ketamine
and then say,
while you're under,
you're a very successful person.
What do you do for a living?
If you can't answer,
they'll tell you.
They actually--
>>REGINA: Do they
give you a name,
like a whole separate
legend, so to speak?
>>TEAL: It depends on how
much influence the surrounding
community is going
to have on a person
because it doesn't benefit
them to have somebody who's,
let's say, really
involved in school saying,
oh, now I'm no longer Mary.
I'm Jane.
That doesn't benefit them.
So it depends on
the amount of access
a person has to
mainstream society
or how surrounded they
are by just cult members
whether they will program
actual names or not.
>>REGINA: I see.
>>TEAL: And sometimes
they'll program names
and keep them secret.
>>REGINA: OK.
But only the handler
would use that name
for a particular task?
>>TEAL: Exactly.
But this is why they use
color programming so often.
So basically, a
cult trainer knows
that if they come up
to you and they say,
here's a gold
necklace, it'll trigger
all of it plus the personality.
And the thing is is they'll
cut that personality off
from the trauma.
So if you talk to a person
who's in a gold program,
they won't have any
memory of their childhood.
They will have no
memory of the trauma.
They only see themselves as
a super successful person
who always has been successful
and failure doesn't exist.
>>REGINA: So is this a
part of the personality
that they would then,
had you gone all the way
through the system,
send out into the world
as the upstanding
citizen charismatic?
>>TEAL: Yes.
>>REGINA: That's
the successful part.
>>TEAL: Yes.
>>REGINA: OK.
So this is a very
long-term program.
>>TEAL: Oh, yeah.
>>REGINA: This is a
lifetime of training
until you reach adult
years, pretty much, right?
>>TEAL: Even past them because
you need to keep reinforcing
certain programs--
but you can set up a program
system within a human
so that it is self-triggering
and that's really
what they want to go for.
What they want to
go for is without me
having to-- let's say
that I was a trainer
and you were a subject.
My goal with you from
day one is to set up
enough triggers in you that I
don't even need to be there.
You're triggering
yourself just by virtue
of being around people,
hearing certain words
that you're inevitably
going to hear--
>>REGINA: Seeing gold
necklaces, right?
>>TEAL: You're going
to be triggered.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>TEAL: Now, this is where the
cult trainers really get off
because really, these people, no
humanity, no empathy, nothing--
it's really a game
because I also
don't want you getting triggered
negatively in situations where
that doesn't benefit me.
So do you see how
complicated this gets?
>>REGINA: Oh, yes,
incredibly complex,
a very ugly and dangerous
game but incredibly
complex and clever
at the same time.
OK.
So now your parents--
they must have seen
some changes in you.
Or did they just think you were
so weird anyway that it just
went unnoticed?
>>TEAL: I think it's
a little bit of both.
I was so weird, anyway
and so unhappy, anyway.
But yeah, they saw me take
a serious sharp decline.
But a lot of times
when I would come home,
they had a
relationship with Doc.
>>REGINA: Did they know you
were being taken at night?
>>TEAL: No.
>>REGINA: Oh, OK.
So it wasn't by
their permission?
>>TEAL: No.
Actually, it was not
until two years later
that it was with
their permission.
>>REGINA: They ultimately
did get permission?
>>TEAL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And what
did they think they
were giving permission for?
>>TEAL: Horseback riding lessons
and sort of mentor relationship
with somebody who loved horses.
I was a horse
freak so of course,
my parents were like, let's
get her around horses then.
>>REGINA: Maybe
that'll make her happy.
>>TEAL: Yes.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>TEAL: So we've got this
guy that's like, look,
I can take her.
I can show her everything.
And so they're like, OK.
>>REGINA: So then
the obvious question
becomes, did you tell your
parents what was happening?
>>TEAL: Hell no.
>>REGINA: Because they weren't
going to listen, anyway
or because you
didn't trust them?
You only trusted him?
>>TEAL: No.
It's because what
they tell you they're
going to do if you say anything.
>>REGINA: Oh, I
see, the threats.
Yeah.
Well, of course, that
makes more sense.
Sure.
>>TEAL: But this is
what people have to get.
It's bad enough and it
usually will shut somebody up
If the threats are
just unsubstantial.
But what these
people do is they'll
kill animals in
front of you and say,
this is going to
be your brother.
Or they'll do what
they did with me,
which is to inject
me with ketamine
and actually walk me through
a visualization of each one
of my family
members being killed
as a result of me talking.
>>REGINA: And that was part
of the hypnosis process.
>>TEAL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: So there's a
huge incentive not to talk.
All right.
So now you started drawing.
You had a very interesting
kind of life journal-wise,
in terms of a language
you developed-- also
the imagery and the artistry.
But one of the things
that was interesting
was you started drawing
these beings that
had the kind of vertical
pupil that looked,
as people in this
community would say,
almost reptilian in nature.
What were those, why did you
draw those, what did you see,
and did you ever see any of
that with your inside eyes
when you were at some of
these satanic gatherings?
So let's talk about this.
>>TEAL: Oh, I saw all of them.
See, it's like a
like attracts like.
So some of these
beings which humans
have been calling
demons or things
like that, they are
at these rituals.
They're all over the place.
They're feeding
off of the energy
fields of a lot
of people that are
in those types of situations
and I was seeing all of it
as a child.
>>REGINA: You were
seeing the unseen realm
beings and the human realms?
Did you ever see those
same eyes reflected
in the human realm,
where it was almost
like a shapeshifting thing?
>>TEAL: Yes.
>>REGINA: So both
humans and demons--
beings from other lower realms.
And so you were documenting
this in your journal
via your artwork.
>>TEAL: Yes.
>>REGINA: OK.
What were you also attempting
to do in your journals
at this time because you were
in so much conflict and pain?
>>TEAL: I was trying to
find some kind of outlet
because it's just like the
amount of pressure that
was on my system was too much.
And I wanted a way
to record, also.
I did it in a
different language,
but I wanted a way to record
what was happening in a way
that my parents wouldn't
be able to read it.
>>REGINA: This language you
created is symbolic in nature.
It looks like it could have
come from another planet
or anywhere, really.
So tell us a little bit about
the language you constructed.
>>TEAL: Well, it is
channeled, in fact.
So it's not like I
sat there and was
like, this is going to be A
and this is going to be B. It
was like a channeled language.
>>REGINA: A symbolic language--
>>TEAL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Right.
And so where did you download
this from, you believe?
>>TEAL: Arcturus.
>>REGINA: OK.
And so if the
Arcturans were there,
let's talk about their
perspective in watching over
you and what was going on
and why this was going on.
>>TEAL: OK.
Well, basically, before
coming into this life,
I intended to go
into the darkest
of the darkest of the darkest
of the deepest of the lowest
types of vibrations that
you can find on the planet.
Let's call it "the darkest
of the human shadow"
because my life soul imprint
purpose is integration.
I want to bridge the gap
between that and this
because we as people, we
love to look at these lower
vibrational fields and
say, that's not me.
So we look at a serial killer
and say, that's not me.
And in fact, it is because
oneness is the ultimate truth
of this universe.
There is not a single
thing that is not you.
So it is the integration
of the demon that makes it
so the demon no longer
acts out in the way
that it is acting out.
It's the integration
of the war in me
that causes war to dissipate.
It is basically the
ultimate definition
of love, which is
to take something
as thyself, which reunites the
fragmented aspects of source
consciousness.
>>REGINA: So you had a
contract before birth--
>>TEAL: I did--
>>REGINA: To go into
the darkest of the dark
and the Arcturans
are your guides?
Or is that also a place
that perhaps you've
been or visited
and lived in before
and you chose to come
into the Earth existence
for this purpose?
>>TEAL: Yes.
>>REGINA: OK.
So they continued
guiding you, right?
>>TEAL: Yes.
But also, I was actually
talking about this
because what's
really interesting
is people assume, oh, that's
why Teal survived is because she
had all this access to these
guides that were helping her
the whole time.
But this is the thing.
It actually--
>>REGINA: They put you in it.
>>TEAL: Yeah.
It made it worse.
I actually still kind of
have to honestly get over
a lot of this I call it
the "spirit guide trauma."
>>REGINA: That
they abandoned you.
>>TEAL: Yeah.
Or oftentimes, I'd be standing
there getting tortured
and they're just like, I
reach out to try to grab them
and there's nothing to grab.
And I realized reviewing
my own soul contracts
much later that it was
an agreement we made.
No matter how deep I get,
no matter how dark I go,
I have to understand what
it means to have no help.
I mean nothing.
So I had told them to do
that, but I did forget that.
So basically going through
it and having your own spirit
guides stare at you while
you're getting tortured
is like now I've
got bystander trauma
relative to my own guides.
>>REGINA: Right.
[LAUGHTER]
Yeah.
That sucks when even your
guides don't feel like they're
coming through for you.
So now you're a beautiful
young girl and turning
into a beautiful young lady.
Were there ever sexual
connotations in all this
and any sexual abuse in it?
>>TEAL: Usually,
I was prostituted
to men out of outdoor
gas station bathrooms.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And let's talk about that
and what age you were.
>>TEAL: I started at age eight.
He would take out the stack
of Polaroid photographs
and I would watch him walk
across the little parking lot.
Wendover was a
really common place
where we were, this
little gambling town.
Somebody would meet him.
I would have no idea how they
would arrange the meeting
because I wasn't part of that.
>>REGINA: What was
on the photographs?
>>TEAL: It was just pictures
of me in different poses.
And a lot of them
were sadomasochistic.
So he'd take photographs
in a basement of me
with a wife beater that
was torn with animal blood.
So he would take
them over, hand them
to whatever guy had
come that night,
and then the guy
would look through it
and then they would
basically make an agreement
upon how much money they would
pay him for what act of mine.
And then he would take me
either into the motel room
or into these bathrooms
and have their way.
>>REGINA: And that went
on for years, I take it.
>>TEAL: Yeah.
It started to shift
when I was about 12,
13 because these men who were
paying insane amounts of money
to have sex with a
child, they're not
really interested in a woman.
So when I started
transitioning from kid to teen,
it was not the same
demographic of interest.
And so it was at that point
that the group in general
started to shift their
attitude towards maybe
we should put her into modeling.
>>REGINA: This was almost
exclusively, I assume,
male clientele.
>>TEAL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And were
many of them sadists?
>>TEAL: Oh, yeah.
>>REGINA: So there was a danger
to you during all of this,
as well.
>>TEAL: Oh, yeah.
A lot of them were
into asphyxiation.
I actually liked those
clients, to be honest.
And it sounds really horrific
because I would almost die.
There's a panic when
somebody is suffocating you.
There's an absolute terror that
you can't actually control.
It's just visceral.
But right after that panic,
it's like the closest
you can get to being
out of everything.
It was freedom.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
I guess in that whole
twisted scene you were in,
it would feel like an
escape of some kind.
>>TEAL: I really
wanted it to happen.
It's that level of pain.
It's the kind of pain where
when you're a little child
and there's a man so
heavy on top of you
that it feels like he's
going to break your bones,
there's a point that you wish
you're going to break in half,
that the torture becomes that
your body isn't breaking.
>>REGINA: So was this
also part of breaking
your psyche, the prostitution?
Yeah, there's some money
to gain on their part
and there's more trauma for you.
Is this a traditional part
of the training and splitting
of the psyche
further and further?
>>TEAL: "Kitten
programming," they call it.
>>REGINA: "Kitten?"
What's that mean?
>>TEAL: Well, it's either
kitten or siren programming.
The siren programming is
trained to try to lure a man in
and the kitten
programming is more
I'm going to chase the guy.
So a lot of that was
kitten programming.
It's how you behave
and move sexually
so you can completely manipulate
the way a person feels.
>>REGINA: And you were taught
to manipulate them in that way.
>>TEAL: Oh, yeah.
>>REGINA: Right--
well, because you
would need that training
for later in life.
>>TEAL: Yes.
>>REGINA: You need
that skill set.
>>TEAL: Well, me
specifically in my role.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>TEAL: What they train
you depends on your role
that they've chosen you for.
The Pythia Is what they
call on the "light side."
The light side of
these cult groups
are the ones that know all the
goings-on of the entire cult
group.
On the dark side,
you're part of it
but you don't
actually know what's
going on at the higher levels.
So I had to be raised with the
knowledge of every single one
of these behaviors, every
one of these let's call
them groups or roles
within this program.
>>REGINA: And so now you're
not only writing in your diary.
You have these demonic
images of these people
with vertical pupils.
You've created a new
language, a code language
that you haven't created.
It's been downloaded.
But from the looks
of it, other people
would say, what
the heck is that?
So you're obviously
speaking in codes now.
And now you start smearing
blood on the diaries.
At what point did
all of the self-harm
start coming into play?
>>TEAL: 11.
That was when it was really
permissible from the group
itself for me to be doing that
to try to distract from them.
>>REGINA: So that it would look
like it was really all on you.
>>TEAL: Mm-hm.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>TEAL: And it has
to be a way for them
to cover it up
because at that age,
one of the rules
of the oracle is
that we get our blood
actually drunk by the groups.
>>REGINA: Was there
bloodletting where they ever
drank your blood?
>>TEAL: Several times.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>TEAL: It was like a common
occurrence throughout the year.
>>REGINA: So it's a cover to
have you cutting yourself.
>>TEAL: Yes.
>>REGINA: Well, you were
not afraid of sharp objects,
I'll say that.
But again, I couldn't even
conceive of doing such a thing.
I'm terrified of knives.
But you had a
really big incentive
and that was it would
at least end all of it.
>>TEAL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And so a lot of
times because it's become such
a phenomenon of your age group
and younger to cut themselves
now--
young girls of all
kinds, high school,
junior high school girls
cutting themselves-- this
is something I think
that others don't really
understand what's going
on because the rest of us
are afraid of knives, for one.
And sometimes, it seems
to be for almost effect.
Other times, it's
to take one's life.
So explain to us this
cutting phenomena in general.
>>TEAL: OK.
Well, the cutting
phenomenon in general
happens in an environment that
is invalidating, specifically
relative to negative emotion.
So let's say that
you've got a young girl
and it's usually
the relationship,
to be honest, between
the girl and the mother.
>>REGINA: Really?
More the mother than the father?
>>TEAL: Much more.
>>REGINA: And how so?
Explain that to us.
>>TEAL: Because well, either
the mother's being the enabler
for a dysfunctional, sometimes
even sexual relationship--
>>REGINA: Incestuous
or otherwise, yeah.
>>TEAL: The enabler causes
a hell of a lot of damage
because they're in
denial and it's denial
that really causes cutting.
>>REGINA: So you go to
your mother and say,
this is what's happening
with my stepdad.
And the mother's like,
oh, don't talk about that
and you can't break through
to get her attention.
>>TEAL: That's one example.
Another example
is you don't have
any of that abuse
going on but you've
got an incredibly invalidating
mother, the type of mother,
let's say, that they're
on the narcissist spectrum
where it's like your
reality doesn't exist.
My reality is the
only one that exists
and you don't have
the right to have
an emotion that's not mine.
So whenever the child expresses
a negative emotion, especially
relative to something
the mother is doing,
it doesn't get validated.
It doesn't get
treated as reality.
It's almost like
having somebody puke
and then having somebody
stuff the vomit back
down their throat.
So the cutting
becomes the only way
to try to show how
much pain you're in
and also to bleed yourself free
of the negative energy, which
is the poison.
It feels like poison
inside your body.
>>REGINA: It takes a
lot of courage, really
kind of baseline courage, to
do that, though, doesn't it?
Or does it just seem like
that to someone like me?
>>TEAL: No.
It's just that
the depths of pain
that a human being
can get to are
unfathomable for the
majority of people.
There are depths
of emotional pain
where physical pain is
so much of a relief.
And it's that.
>>REGINA: Why has it become
almost a cultural phenomenon
in certain ways at this time?
>>TEAL: I think it's
because children
are being born with more
and more and more need
to actually be individuals,
to be themselves.
On just a purely
extrasensoral level,
I'm seeing these
children who are now
incarnating with such
a clear vision for what
they want to create.
And so if you have
an individualist born
to this world who's like,
you can't make me go sideways
and yet society itself is
inherently invalidating,
especially of
emotion, you're going
to see a rise in all
of these symptoms.
>>REGINA: OK.
So now let's talk
about what happened.
This program lasted 13
years, something like that.
So you had to be now
in your late teens.
>>TEAL: Yeah, 19.
>>REGINA: 19-- so let's talk
about how that program ended.
>>TEAL: OK.
Well, it wasn't supposed to end.
>>REGINA: I know it
wasn't supposed to.
So how did it end?
>>TEAL: I was talking
about running away,
which is not permissible.
But I wasn't talking
about that to the group.
I was talking about
that to my mother.
My mother didn't know that Doc
was part of this-- ended up
admitting to him that I was
talking about moving out
of state and it infuriated him.
I was having so many
breakthrough symptoms
at this point in my teen years,
multiple suicide attempts,
that he'd given me a vial
of ketamine to administer
to my pulse points when I was
feeling too much of a panic
attack.
He wasn't really
accounting for the fact
that that would increase my
capacity to deal with the drug.
So he misdosed me.
He was planning a very
elaborate programming
session that would make
it so I couldn't leave
but he miscalculated how much
it would take to put me under.
When he injected me and put
me in the back of this van,
I didn't lose consciousness
like I should have done.
So I had no lapse
in consciousness.
>>REGINA: So what happened
once you were put in the van?
>>TEAL: I was driven
up to southern Idaho.
He took me out of
the car and one
of the people that is part
of this group is a mortician.
And this is part of how this
group disposes of bodies.
So oftentimes, they would use--
let's say they didn't
procure a subject.
They would use somebody
who had died naturally
and was given to the
mortician's office.
And of course, the
family would have
no idea what would be
happening to their loved one,
but this is what the
cult group would do.
They'd take the body and
do rituals with the body.
So he took me out to the
middle of these woods--
got me out of the truck.
I was stumbling
around, of course,
because I was drugged up but not
drugged up enough to not know
what's going on.
>>REGINA: What was
his intention that was
going to happen in the woods?
>>TEAL: This'll explain it all.
There was a body that was
out there in the woods
that he had put out there.
He took me by the back of my
neck, threw me on the floor
as fast as he could, and he
said, look what you've done.
This is what happens when
I take my eyes off you.
So he was trying to convince
me that I had killed this man.
It was one of the worst
experiences I've ever
had in my life because
I looked at him
and it was like, this is the
first I ever thought, if this
is a lie, what else is a lie?
>>REGINA: OK.
Now you realize it's a lie.
So now what happens?
>>TEAL: It was instinctual.
It wasn't very rational.
It's like the moment you
know you just have to run.
And I started thinking, OK,
I'm going to get in my car
and I'm going to go away.
No, you're not.
You're going to stay.
No, I'm going to get
in my car and go away.
No, you're not.
You're going to stay.
Dissociating-- coming
back to seeing him
in a really jolly mood
burning this body back to I'm
going to run away, planning how
I'm going to get in the car.
And I did by the
end of the night.
I got in the car,
super drugged up still,
and I drove all the way through
the night to the home of a man
that I had met only twice.
>>REGINA: And that
was the end of it?
>>TEAL: I wish it
was the end of it.
It was the last time I saw him.
>>REGINA: But it
wasn't the end of it?
>>TEAL: No.
>>REGINA: So what happened?
>>TEAL: I wasn't
actually planning
on running away running away.
I got there, flipped out,
cut the hell out of myself,
and planned to go back.
I was like, I'm just going
to stay here for the night.
But one night turned
into two nights
turned into three nights
turned into four nights.
And this guy was treating me so
well that I was like, I'm just
never going to go back.
I don't want to ever go back.
I started developing real
panic about going back
because the reality is if
you do something like that,
oh my gosh--
>>REGINA: You're not
going to be well-received
at your homecoming.
>>TEAL: No.
And they're not going
to come after you.
That's what people don't get.
They only kill people that
are enough of a liability
that it's worth killing them.
You don't kill
something that's as
valuable as a programmed
human being, especially
when the rule of
the game is I've
failed if I have to-- so let's
say that I'm the cold trainer
and you're the subject.
If I have to come
after you, I've failed.
I only win when you
come back willingly.
>>REGINA: And so if they've
broken you appropriately,
you'll come back
of your own accord.
>>TEAL: Yes.
>>REGINA: And you did?
>>TEAL: No, I didn't.
>>REGINA: OK.
So what happened?
Was that the end then?
>>TEAL: No.
It was the end of the
abuse, but the reason
I'm saying that
wasn't the end is
when you're that programmed,
it's never the end.
>>REGINA: Oh, of course.
I was just talking about the
way in which that would happen.
And so you found your
way to other people.
And you met a man named
Blake and you found
your way into people who
were, it seems from--
I don't know.
I can only say what I saw
in the documentary, right--
seemingly kind people.
There seemed to be a type of
innocence and kindness both.
>>TEAL: Super
codependent people.
>>REGINA: So how did that work?
You'd been through everything
and this person probably
couldn't begin to understand
what you had been through.
What did that create
because that really set up
a template for some
future relationships?
>>TEAL: Blake is
my guardian angel.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
it seems like it.
He seemed like just
such a kind human being.
>>TEAL: Oh, yeah.
>>REGINA: And so he
is your Earth angel.
>>TEAL: 100%.
That is what he
is and anybody who
meets him feels the
same way about him.
He's just that way.
>>REGINA: He seems like it.
>>TEAL: He's the most
unconditional person
I've ever met in my life.
>>REGINA: And he's still in your
life as a dear, dear guardian
angel.
>>TEAL: Oh, yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
So the relationship
part of it, that went on
and you had another
relationship after that.
But what I found
interesting in the film
is the men that you
chose all looked alike
and they seemed to have
a similar expression.
So you were looking
for this kind
of angelic savior within men to
bring you around to yourself.
>>TEAL: It was, but there's
a sadder story behind that.
>>REGINA: OK.
What's that?
>>TEAL: When I was younger, part
of the programming that they do
is giving you an out.
So they'll say, OK, once
you get this object,
you get to be out of your role.
Or once you meet
this type of person,
you get to be out of your role.
And being in a Mormon
community, you've
got a lot of
Scandinavian-looking boys.
So what they programmed
me to believe
was that once I met a
blond-haired, blue-eyed guy who
totally would rescue
me, then I could
be out of the group, knowing
that that would never happen,
especially in a community
that ostracizes me
and that is not OK
with non-Mormons.
>>REGINA: Right.
So you ended up
perpetuating this program.
And what did it
end up ultimately
doing to these relationships
with that planted inside?
>>TEAL: I have been a
disaster in relationships.
>>REGINA: Well, I gathered that.
[LAUGHTER]
>>TEAL: You just don't get out
of this type of programming
and have an OK relationship.
They're incredibly
volatile relationships.
Even if the person
on the other end
is more sweet and
codependent, just you
can't make a relationship work.
>>REGINA: How can they
know how to deal with you?
>>TEAL: They can't.
And the terror of
abandonment is beyond--
it's not rational.
So they were very--
>>REGINA: Beyond codependent.
>>TEAL: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
OK.
Gotcha.
And it's not funny, but it's
so outrageously true, it almost
has a type of humor
to it because,
how do you go about
actually starting
to overwrite the programming?
>>TEAL: I'm still in the process
of trying to figure this out
because the reality
is that nobody knows.
I visited some of the most
brilliant ritual programming
minds and trauma abuse
therapists and nobody
really fully knows because it's
so much developmental trauma.
And developmental trauma--
>>REGINA: Exactly.
It's totally different
than what you
would experience as an adult.
>>TEAL: Totally.
And so what we're
running into-- and really
I'm excited to go with
most of my career--
and I've done that to a degree.
But where I'm excited to
go with most of my career
is in this direction
because it's
a huge blind spot and an
unknown zone for psychology,
for spirituality, for all of it.
It's almost like there's
this demographic of people
that come from the
worst of the worst,
especially in childhood
trauma abuse situations,
where nothing's
working for them.
And the rate of
success is horrible.
And the science is really
horrible behind it,
saying you're always going
to be suffering from this.
>>REGINA: It's almost like
you're an experimental vehicle
that collapses time, collapses--
the way I would put it-- almost
many, many incarnations--
of which certainly
people, human beings,
have been through
every kind of abuse,
every kind of torture
and darkness at one
point or another--
collapsing it all
into one lifetime
and then offering yourself up to
be examined and see, how do you
start reversing the programming
of the subconscious mind?
>>TEAL: That is
probably the best way
anybody has ever summed me up.
And yes, that's exactly
what I feel like.
>>REGINA: So you're an ongoing
experiment, so to speak.
>>TEAL: I am and I
would love to not be.
I would love to be like,
look, I figured it all out.
But no, I'm an
ongoing experiment.
>>REGINA: Well, it
makes perfect sense.
At least you're offering
yourself up for it
because it does have to
be looked at in there.
And if they can figure
out this conundrum,
then we can begin looking
at the subconscious
mind in a different
way and having
maybe more useful tools
than the dark tools that
have been used on you.
>>TEAL: Yes.
And I have a few of them.
I have a few of these cues now.
So I'm not going to say
that I'm completely better,
but I do have some of them
and I know areas where we've
been falling short, finally.
And that is really
an area of passion.
>>REGINA: Good.
If you can help in that
field, that's tremendous?
Are you still subject to
hurting yourself and such?
>>TEAL: My relapses are much
fewer and farther between.
But I'm in the same
position that most people
are in when they have a
serious addiction, where it's
like, I don't want
to really ever say
that it's completely
gone because it's just
the behavior, the
default behavior when
things get way too much
stress, way too much pressure.
>>REGINA: Well, you've had
many views of your interview
and your documentary--
a lot.
And so you have
people, young people--
mostly, it looks like
it must be people
in their 20s and some teens--
that are maybe looking to
have the pain in themselves
revealed through your pain.
>>TEAL: Yes.
>>REGINA: And so that attraction
is that maybe you can see them
for what they're going through--
>>TEAL: And I can--
>>REGINA: Where
other people can't.
And so that's really the service
that you bring to the world
is to help them be able to start
if not stepping in and becoming
friends with their shadow,
at least feeling like someone
knows that they're
dealing with a shadow.
>>TEAL: Exactly.
That's it.
And I'm in love with doing
this because the reality is
that even in the
spiritual field,
you've got a bunch of people who
have very solid beliefs like,
it's a choice to
feel good or bad.
>>REGINA: Right.
No, it's not, not if it's
that deeply programmed.
It's not a choice.
>>TEAL: That's what I'm saying.
So some of these let's call them
"higher spiritual truths," when
you present that to this
demographic of people who
have suffered this much, they
react the same way I reacted
when I was 17.
How dare you say that to me?
>>REGINA: Yeah, exactly.
>>TEAL: It's just made
it 50 times worse.
Thank you for the
extra pressure.
So basically, I'm the person
who's saying, you know what?
I have access to these things.
That's easy for me.
But we've got to
bridge the gap here
because it's not
OK to just come in
with these higher dimensional
truths to somebody who's
been through that.
It actually has to
be acknowledged.
It actually has to be validated.
It has to be integrated.
It can't just be, you know what?
That's not who I am.
I'm going to just get
rid of the illusion.
We've got to do the opposite.
And sometimes when pain is
bad enough, it forces you to.
It's not an option not to.
>>REGINA: Right.
And we're at a point
in history where
so much is bubbling
up from underneath,
deep in the psyche of the
Earth of the collective
consciousness, that if we
can start looking at it
and contending with it and
maybe finding, like I said,
new tools to begin
unearthing it, healing,
and so that's your job.
That's what you're part of is
to unearth this subconscious
shadow and help people
begin bringing it to light.
>>TEAL: Yes.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Anything else?
We're just about out of time.
Anything else you'd like to
say that we haven't gotten to?
>>TEAL: Yeah.
I think it's really important
that people understand
that there's nothing
that they can go through
that they can't heal.
There's nothing they can go
through that can't get better.
It's really important for people
to have that kind of hope.
But I also have really
moved into the space where
what's critical for me
to express to people
and have them understand
is that really, it's
not about getting better, that
there's almost a kind of pain
when you approach yourself
with that attitude.
>>REGINA: Well, there's
the kind of self-defeatism
that ends up happening.
Yeah.
>>TEAL: Why do you
have to get better?
There's a part of me that's
really interested in this type
of exploration.
Why does everything
have to be improved?
Why can't you just be really,
really loved the way you are?
Why can't we join
each other in pain
instead of spend our life trying
to get somebody out of it?
It can be just as self-hating
or other-hating an act
as it can be self-loving
and other-loving.
Mm-hm.
Well, and you have
millions of young people
that feel the same way.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>TEAL: So for that,
thank you, Teal.
>>REGINA: Thank you.
>>TEAL: Again, the name of the
documentary about Teal's life
is called "Open Shadow."
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]